notes.md, before:

# Miscellaneous Notes
- MDN Web Docs is a great recource that provides information about Open Web technologies including HTML, CSS, JS, etc.

# GitHub

## How to Commit Changes:
1. Make the change
2. Type the command "git add ." in the git bash terminal
3. Type the command "git commit" in the terminal
4. Type the command "git push" in the terminal
5. To pull changes down from github, type "git pull"
6. Use "git status" to see how the local cloned repository compares to the github repository

# Markdown Syntax

## Styling text:
- wrap w/ "**" = bold
- wrap w/ "* *" = italic
- wrap w/ "~~" = strikethrough
- wrap w/ "***" = all bold italic
- precede quoted text with ">"

# Amazon Web Services - EC2

## Things to Remember:
- command to remote shell into the server = "ssh -i documents/cs260/my_first_key_pair.pem ubuntu@3.86.141.52"
- server elastic IP address = 3.86.141.52

# Caddy, HTTPS, TLS, certs

## General Notes:
- DNS = routes a request to the server (which has caddy in it)
- Caddy = routes the request internally within the computer (server machine) after the DNS has routed it
    - it will map the request to static files or servers running simon/startup for our purposes
- Web Certificates = sends a nonce to the person owning the web certificate when a request is made. Nonce must be sent back to authenticate

### HTTP/HTTPS:
- HTTP = Non-secure Hypertext Transport Protocol
    - Without a secure connection, anyone that had access to the network traffic could easily capture all data
    - it is the communication network between web browser and web server
        - normally web browser needs to request data from the web server
        - you need web sockets for it to be bi-directional
- HTTPS = Secure Hypertext Transport Protocol
    - Secure connection happens before any data exchanged
    - Secure connection means all data is encrypted using TLS protocol
    - TLS negotiates a shared secret that is used to encrypt data
- Modern browseers expect web servers to exclusively use HTTPS
    - next version of HTTP only supports secure connections

### Web Certificates:
- generated by trusted 3rd party
certificate issuer responsible for verifying certificate owner actually owns domain name represented by certificate

### Caddy:
- uses Let's Encrypt to generate web certificate every time HTTPS request is made for a domain name that Caddy doesn't have web certificate for

# Console & Editors:

## Developer Environment:

### Console:
Console Commands:
- echo - Output the parameters of the command
- cd - Change directory
- mkdir - Make directory
- rmdir - Remove directory
- rm - Remove file(s)
- mv - Move file(s)
- cp - Copy files
- ls - List files
- curl - Command line client URL browser
- grep - Regular expression search (within a file)
- find - Find files (within your operating system)
- top - View running processes
- df - View disk statistics
- cat - Output file
- less - Interactive file output
- wc - Count words
- ps - View processes
- kill - Kill a process
- sudo - Execute as admin (basically tells the computer you know what you’re doing)
- ssh - Remote shell
- scp - Securely copy files to a remote computer
- history - Show history of commands
- ping - Test connection
- tracert - Trace network
- dig - DNS information
- man - Look in the manual
- | - takes the output from the last command and pipes it in as the input to the next command
- Ctrl c - cancel command
- Ctrl r - recall command
- Ctrl z - background command

# HTML

### Basic Structure
- DOCTYPE - tells what version of html you're using
- html - page container
- Head - meta data (doesn't render)
    - Title - often put in the tab
- Body - stuff that renders on the page
- header - header content
- main - main content of page
- footer - footer of main content
- section - a section of main content

### Elements
- div - block division of content
- span - inline (within a block) span of content
- h1-h9 - text heading (h1 is biggest, h9 is smallest)
- p - paragraph
- table - a table bruh
- ol, ul - ordered list & unorder list
- a - anchor tag (for hyperlink)
- img - graphical image reference
- radio - mutually exclusive choice
- checkbox - choice, but not exlusive
- menu - another container for list items

### How HTML Works
- computer converts the html file into an in-memory tree
- JavaScript and other stuff can mess with the tree to render it in a certain way
- When a computer calls a web server to load a webpage, it will automatically load index.html if the call is not specified. 
    - **Name your base landing page index.html**

# CSS

### Rule Sets
- Padding --> between content and border
- Margin --> space between two blocks
- hsl --> hue, saturation and light (hue, saturation, light)

### Fonts, Animation, Practice
- Fonts
    - San Serif - only major strokes
    - Serif - minor strokes off major strokes
    - Monospace - all letters have same size
    - *go to fonts.google for more fonts*
    - Importing on style sheets:
        - use "@import url(https...com)"
- Sizing:
    - vh (vertical height) is based off of the display size
    - percentage is based off of the parent element
    - em is the size of the character of m
- Unicode and UTF-8:
    - put "charset="UTF-8"" in the meta section
    - allows you to write in all different types of languages in your html
- Animations:
    - under the desired element:
        - use animation-name: demo; and animation-duration: (time); to create an animation
        - use "alternate" to go back and forth between beginning and end of animation
    - then after that element, us:
        - @keyframes (name of animation) {} to define the animation
        - Use from...to inside the definition to define what it will start at and what it will end at
- Additional Notes:
    - :root --> a selector that assigns attributes it holds to all other selectors
    - !IMPORTANT --> decorator that forces an attribute to take priority

### Responsive, grid, flex
- Float --> makes something go to a certain side of the page (left or right)
    - right is also same as inline-end (sends it to the end of the text - so in arabic inline-end would be left)
    - inline-start is the opposite equivalent
- Display Type:
    - Block --> width expands to fill up width of parent (like a paragraph)
    - Inline --> marking up a portion of bigger text; width is defined to be content size (like a text-box)
    - Grid --> effects the children of the element, not the element itself, nor its grandchildren
    - Flex --> also controls the children
        - Column --> flexes downward
        - flex: 0 means that you don't want it to flex at all
        - basis: the number of pixels you add on to the flex (which is a fractional unit) after the flex is given

### CSS Debugging, Frameworks, Simon
- Frameworks:
    - the bootstrap stylesheet is linked under the head element
    - the javascript is linked at the end of your body element

# JavaScript

### General Notes
- Officially called ECMAScript
- Inspired by Scheme
- Interpreted
- Dynamically typed
- Most popular programing language in the world
- Three ways to add js to html file:
    - Script attribute - put the js directly in to the attribute tag of the element using it
    - Script tag - add a script tag after the body tag and put your js in that
        - You need to put it after the body tag so that if it uses any of the html in the file, that html has already been rendered
- Put semicolons at the end of statements, curly brackets for loops and functions
- Name js file "main.js"
- Declaring Variables:
    - syntax "let" for declaring variables:
        - "let x = 1"
        - OR "const" z = 4

### Types, Operators, Conditionals & Loops
- Types
    - null = empty value (but it is a null object)
    - undefined = undefined variable (truly not an object or type)
    - string = same as other languages
    - number = integer
    - object = essentialy a map (name-vaule pairs. Name is a symbol)
        - use x = {} as short script to create a new object
    - array = is of object rype
    - function = function is a first-order type
        - can return any type from a function
        - if you don't return anything, it will return undefined
    - Dynamic Conversions:
        - JS attempts to add different types together when you tell it to:
            - Thus 'rat' + [' fink'] would give you 'rat fink'
            - adding an int and a string, js would convert the int to a string and then add the strings
- Operators
    - equality -> "==="
    - and -> "&&"
    - or -> "||"
        - or stops as soon as it reaches something that's truthy
        - returns whatever actually satisfied the expression (whatever's truthy) 
    - ?? -> Nullish --> returns the first thing that's not nullish (coalesces the null things into the first non null thing)
        - undefined and null are both nullish  
    - ??= -> Nullish assignment operator --> if this thing is nullish, assign it to this value 
- Conditionals
    - falsy (false, 0, -0, '', NaN, null, undefined)
    - truthy = !falsy
- Loops
    - For:
        - basically same syntax as c/c++
    - While:
        - again, use "break" to break out
    - Switch:
        - code with "cases" inside it -> case is executed if matches case requirement
        - program will continue on to next case without a break
        - default is the case that runs given that it matches none of the case requirements

### Functions, objects, classes, JSON
- Functions:
    - Syntax -> function name(parameter) {}
    - Functions are primary types in JS
    - Anonymous functions:
        - Function without a name -> function (parameter) {}
        - Can assign the function to a variable, which can be used to call the function
    - Functions w/o Return Types:
        - Returns undefined
    - JS has optional parameters:
        - f = function (a, b, c = 'rat') { return [a, b, c]}
        - f(1) would return [1, undefined, 'rat']
    - Arrow Functions:
        - Single line with implicit return, inherits this binding
        - Syntax:
            - function name() { const arrow = () => 1; const arrowWith Block = (a) => {a;}}
            - define the name of the function, assign the number of parameters, and what to do with the parameters
            - looks kinda like a function within a function
    - Closures:
        - A function and its surrounding state when it got created

### Regex, rest/spread, destructure, exception
- Strings:
    - TemplateLiterals:
        - use the escape sequence ${} to insert actuall JavaScript code in the string --> like an fstring in python
- Regex:
    - objRex syntax --> new RegExp('cat.?', 'i')
        - the 'i' means it's case insensitive
    - literalRegex syntax --> /cat.?/i
        - most people use this syntax
    - use string.match(literalRegex/objRegex) to match the regex with something in a string
    - .replace(Regex, replacement_string) 
        - matches with the part of the string matching the Regex, and replaces it with the second parameter
- Arrays:
    - basically a vector in css, a list in python
    - .push() adds to the end of the array
    - .pop() removes an item from the end of the array
    - .map()
        - the parameter is a function that tells the map function how to link each value in the array to a new array
        - EX: array.map((n) => n * 100)
            - this would create a new array with each value from the og array corresponding to a number * 100
    - .reduce() reduce averything in the array down to one thing
        - to reduce just part of an array:
            - the third parameter is the index of array you're on; use that
            - more conventional way is to slice your array first and then use that sliced array
    - .filter() filters/returns an array with the numbers that meet the provided filter/condition
    - .some() returns true if any one number (some number) meets the provided condition
- Exceptions:
    - Put a try block first, followed by a catch or finally that catches the error
    - Only throw exceptions that are trully exceptional
        - Don't use exceptions to control the flow of your code

### Promises, Async/Await
- JS is single-threaded, meaning that's the only thing that tab can do
    - because of this, everything must be asynchronous
    - Asynchronous (in part) means it's not running on the main HTML rendering thread
        - there are essentially two different threads operated
    - setTimeout() is an example of asynchronous programming
- Promise - this is how you write your own asynchronous programs
    - Three possible states:
        - pending - currently running asynchronously
        - fulfilled - completed successfully
        - rejected - failed to complete
- async/await
    - async is corresponding with await, and it is a wrapper around promise
        - async is a prefix that makes a promise and wraps a function in it
    - await makes the program wait until the thing after it is done running before it moves on
    - putting async before it makes it continue to run
    - Rules for using await:
        - top level module function OR
        - called from an async function

### Debugging, Simon, Start-Up
- Debugging using web browser console:
    - errors will appear in the console --> click on the error to open up the javascript with the error highlighted/underlined
    - add breakpoints like in pycharm
    - click the arrow pointing down to a circle to step into code
    - hover cursor over a variable to see what that variable is currently equal to
    - Things about JS to remember:
        - won't throw errors for type conversions
        - won't throw errors for index erros
        - Will throw errors for:
            - methods called on nulls
            - referencing things that don't exist/haven't been defined
            - trying to convert a constant variable

Commit message:

added notes about login and local storage

notes.md, after:

# Miscellaneous Notes
- MDN Web Docs is a great recource that provides information about Open Web technologies including HTML, CSS, JS, etc.

# GitHub

## How to Commit Changes:
1. Make the change
2. Type the command "git add ." in the git bash terminal
3. Type the command "git commit" in the terminal
4. Type the command "git push" in the terminal
5. To pull changes down from github, type "git pull"
6. Use "git status" to see how the local cloned repository compares to the github repository

# Markdown Syntax

## Styling text:
- wrap w/ "**" = bold
- wrap w/ "* *" = italic
- wrap w/ "~~" = strikethrough
- wrap w/ "***" = all bold italic
- precede quoted text with ">"

# Amazon Web Services - EC2

## Things to Remember:
- command to remote shell into the server = "ssh -i documents/cs260/my_first_key_pair.pem ubuntu@3.86.141.52"
- server elastic IP address = 3.86.141.52

# Caddy, HTTPS, TLS, certs

## General Notes:
- DNS = routes a request to the server (which has caddy in it)
- Caddy = routes the request internally within the computer (server machine) after the DNS has routed it
    - it will map the request to static files or servers running simon/startup for our purposes
- Web Certificates = sends a nonce to the person owning the web certificate when a request is made. Nonce must be sent back to authenticate

### HTTP/HTTPS:
- HTTP = Non-secure Hypertext Transport Protocol
    - Without a secure connection, anyone that had access to the network traffic could easily capture all data
    - it is the communication network between web browser and web server
        - normally web browser needs to request data from the web server
        - you need web sockets for it to be bi-directional
- HTTPS = Secure Hypertext Transport Protocol
    - Secure connection happens before any data exchanged
    - Secure connection means all data is encrypted using TLS protocol
    - TLS negotiates a shared secret that is used to encrypt data
- Modern browseers expect web servers to exclusively use HTTPS
    - next version of HTTP only supports secure connections

### Web Certificates:
- generated by trusted 3rd party
certificate issuer responsible for verifying certificate owner actually owns domain name represented by certificate

### Caddy:
- uses Let's Encrypt to generate web certificate every time HTTPS request is made for a domain name that Caddy doesn't have web certificate for

# Console & Editors:

## Developer Environment:

### Console:
Console Commands:
- echo - Output the parameters of the command
- cd - Change directory
- mkdir - Make directory
- rmdir - Remove directory
- rm - Remove file(s)
- mv - Move file(s)
- cp - Copy files
- ls - List files
- curl - Command line client URL browser
- grep - Regular expression search (within a file)
- find - Find files (within your operating system)
- top - View running processes
- df - View disk statistics
- cat - Output file
- less - Interactive file output
- wc - Count words
- ps - View processes
- kill - Kill a process
- sudo - Execute as admin (basically tells the computer you know what you’re doing)
- ssh - Remote shell
- scp - Securely copy files to a remote computer
- history - Show history of commands
- ping - Test connection
- tracert - Trace network
- dig - DNS information
- man - Look in the manual
- | - takes the output from the last command and pipes it in as the input to the next command
- Ctrl c - cancel command
- Ctrl r - recall command
- Ctrl z - background command

# HTML

### Basic Structure
- DOCTYPE - tells what version of html you're using
- html - page container
- Head - meta data (doesn't render)
    - Title - often put in the tab
- Body - stuff that renders on the page
- header - header content
- main - main content of page
- footer - footer of main content
- section - a section of main content

### Elements
- div - block division of content
- span - inline (within a block) span of content
- h1-h9 - text heading (h1 is biggest, h9 is smallest)
- p - paragraph
- table - a table bruh
- ol, ul - ordered list & unorder list
- a - anchor tag (for hyperlink)
- img - graphical image reference
- radio - mutually exclusive choice
- checkbox - choice, but not exlusive
- menu - another container for list items

### How HTML Works
- computer converts the html file into an in-memory tree
- JavaScript and other stuff can mess with the tree to render it in a certain way
- When a computer calls a web server to load a webpage, it will automatically load index.html if the call is not specified. 
    - **Name your base landing page index.html**

# CSS

### Rule Sets
- Padding --> between content and border
- Margin --> space between two blocks
- hsl --> hue, saturation and light (hue, saturation, light)

### Fonts, Animation, Practice
- Fonts
    - San Serif - only major strokes
    - Serif - minor strokes off major strokes
    - Monospace - all letters have same size
    - *go to fonts.google for more fonts*
    - Importing on style sheets:
        - use "@import url(https...com)"
- Sizing:
    - vh (vertical height) is based off of the display size
    - percentage is based off of the parent element
    - em is the size of the character of m
- Unicode and UTF-8:
    - put "charset="UTF-8"" in the meta section
    - allows you to write in all different types of languages in your html
- Animations:
    - under the desired element:
        - use animation-name: demo; and animation-duration: (time); to create an animation
        - use "alternate" to go back and forth between beginning and end of animation
    - then after that element, us:
        - @keyframes (name of animation) {} to define the animation
        - Use from...to inside the definition to define what it will start at and what it will end at
- Additional Notes:
    - :root --> a selector that assigns attributes it holds to all other selectors
    - !IMPORTANT --> decorator that forces an attribute to take priority

### Responsive, grid, flex
- Float --> makes something go to a certain side of the page (left or right)
    - right is also same as inline-end (sends it to the end of the text - so in arabic inline-end would be left)
    - inline-start is the opposite equivalent
- Display Type:
    - Block --> width expands to fill up width of parent (like a paragraph)
    - Inline --> marking up a portion of bigger text; width is defined to be content size (like a text-box)
    - Grid --> effects the children of the element, not the element itself, nor its grandchildren
    - Flex --> also controls the children
        - Column --> flexes downward
        - flex: 0 means that you don't want it to flex at all
        - basis: the number of pixels you add on to the flex (which is a fractional unit) after the flex is given

### CSS Debugging, Frameworks, Simon
- Frameworks:
    - the bootstrap stylesheet is linked under the head element
    - the javascript is linked at the end of your body element

# JavaScript

### General Notes
- Officially called ECMAScript
- Inspired by Scheme
- Interpreted
- Dynamically typed
- Most popular programing language in the world
- Three ways to add js to html file:
    - Script attribute - put the js directly in to the attribute tag of the element using it
    - Script tag - add a script tag after the body tag and put your js in that
        - You need to put it after the body tag so that if it uses any of the html in the file, that html has already been rendered
- Put semicolons at the end of statements, curly brackets for loops and functions
- Name js file "main.js"
- Declaring Variables:
    - syntax "let" for declaring variables:
        - "let x = 1"
        - OR "const" z = 4

### Types, Operators, Conditionals & Loops
- Types
    - null = empty value (but it is a null object)
    - undefined = undefined variable (truly not an object or type)
    - string = same as other languages
    - number = integer
    - object = essentialy a map (name-vaule pairs. Name is a symbol)
        - use x = {} as short script to create a new object
    - array = is of object rype
    - function = function is a first-order type
        - can return any type from a function
        - if you don't return anything, it will return undefined
    - Dynamic Conversions:
        - JS attempts to add different types together when you tell it to:
            - Thus 'rat' + [' fink'] would give you 'rat fink'
            - adding an int and a string, js would convert the int to a string and then add the strings
- Operators
    - equality -> "==="
    - and -> "&&"
    - or -> "||"
        - or stops as soon as it reaches something that's truthy
        - returns whatever actually satisfied the expression (whatever's truthy) 
    - ?? -> Nullish --> returns the first thing that's not nullish (coalesces the null things into the first non null thing)
        - undefined and null are both nullish  
    - ??= -> Nullish assignment operator --> if this thing is nullish, assign it to this value 
- Conditionals
    - falsy (false, 0, -0, '', NaN, null, undefined)
    - truthy = !falsy
- Loops
    - For:
        - basically same syntax as c/c++
    - While:
        - again, use "break" to break out
    - Switch:
        - code with "cases" inside it -> case is executed if matches case requirement
        - program will continue on to next case without a break
        - default is the case that runs given that it matches none of the case requirements

### Functions, objects, classes, JSON
- Functions:
    - Syntax -> function name(parameter) {}
    - Functions are primary types in JS
    - Anonymous functions:
        - Function without a name -> function (parameter) {}
        - Can assign the function to a variable, which can be used to call the function
    - Functions w/o Return Types:
        - Returns undefined
    - JS has optional parameters:
        - f = function (a, b, c = 'rat') { return [a, b, c]}
        - f(1) would return [1, undefined, 'rat']
    - Arrow Functions:
        - Single line with implicit return, inherits this binding
        - Syntax:
            - function name() { const arrow = () => 1; const arrowWith Block = (a) => {a;}}
            - define the name of the function, assign the number of parameters, and what to do with the parameters
            - looks kinda like a function within a function
    - Closures:
        - A function and its surrounding state when it got created

### Regex, rest/spread, destructure, exception
- Strings:
    - TemplateLiterals:
        - use the escape sequence ${} to insert actuall JavaScript code in the string --> like an fstring in python
- Regex:
    - objRex syntax --> new RegExp('cat.?', 'i')
        - the 'i' means it's case insensitive
    - literalRegex syntax --> /cat.?/i
        - most people use this syntax
    - use string.match(literalRegex/objRegex) to match the regex with something in a string
    - .replace(Regex, replacement_string) 
        - matches with the part of the string matching the Regex, and replaces it with the second parameter
- Arrays:
    - basically a vector in css, a list in python
    - .push() adds to the end of the array
    - .pop() removes an item from the end of the array
    - .map()
        - the parameter is a function that tells the map function how to link each value in the array to a new array
        - EX: array.map((n) => n * 100)
            - this would create a new array with each value from the og array corresponding to a number * 100
    - .reduce() reduce averything in the array down to one thing
        - to reduce just part of an array:
            - the third parameter is the index of array you're on; use that
            - more conventional way is to slice your array first and then use that sliced array
    - .filter() filters/returns an array with the numbers that meet the provided filter/condition
    - .some() returns true if any one number (some number) meets the provided condition
- Exceptions:
    - Put a try block first, followed by a catch or finally that catches the error
    - Only throw exceptions that are trully exceptional
        - Don't use exceptions to control the flow of your code

### Login, Local Storage
- Redirect using window.location.href = "html to redirect to"
- Local storage is saved only on that specific browser on that specific machine
    - thus, local storage will only be used to simulate an actual login process

### Promises, Async/Await
- JS is single-threaded, meaning that's the only thing that tab can do
    - because of this, everything must be asynchronous
    - Asynchronous (in part) means it's not running on the main HTML rendering thread
        - there are essentially two different threads operated
    - setTimeout() is an example of asynchronous programming
- Promise - this is how you write your own asynchronous programs
    - Three possible states:
        - pending - currently running asynchronously
        - fulfilled - completed successfully
        - rejected - failed to complete
- async/await
    - async is corresponding with await, and it is a wrapper around promise
        - async is a prefix that makes a promise and wraps a function in it
    - await makes the program wait until the thing after it is done running before it moves on
    - putting async before it makes it continue to run
    - Rules for using await:
        - top level module function OR
        - called from an async function

### Debugging, Simon, Start-Up
- Debugging using web browser console:
    - errors will appear in the console --> click on the error to open up the javascript with the error highlighted/underlined
    - add breakpoints like in pycharm
    - click the arrow pointing down to a circle to step into code
    - hover cursor over a variable to see what that variable is currently equal to
    - Things about JS to remember:
        - won't throw errors for type conversions
        - won't throw errors for index erros
        - Will throw errors for:
            - methods called on nulls
            - referencing things that don't exist/haven't been defined
            - trying to convert a constant variable
